Quality of Service (QoS) needs to be implemented in routers

If a network function can be implemented using only the knowledge from end systems of a network, then it is considered as an end to end 
system. This means that if enough information is provided by the end systems, then a particular function can be implemented without any 
involvement from the low level devices of the network such as routers and switches. 
QoS addresses the issue of timeliness. It does not provide services such as delivery guarantee, secure transmission and flow or congestion 
control which are implemented in the end systems and not in routers. Since time of delivery is directly impacted by factors such as the 
condition and the length of the path, end systems alone cannot implement this service.
The decision to use expedited service is made by the end systems. There are four main steps in the implementation of QoS: flow 
specification, admission control, resource reservation and packet scheduling. 
Flow specifications are decided by the sender and the receiver depending on the requirements they need. Hence, this is a function of the 
end systems. Admission control is done in routers where each router takes a look at the specifications given by the end systems and decide 
whether they can be serviced. Hence this is a functionality of the routers. If the routers decide to service the request, then each of them
has to reserve enough resources. Therefore, resource reservation is also a functionality of the routers. The final step, packet scheduling,
is where each packet needs to be classified as belonging to a flow that needs expedited service or regular service. This step is also 
carried out in routers. 
It can be observed that apart from specifying the flow specifications, the rest of the operations are carried out in routers. Based
on the requirements of a QoS system, only the routers can provide the resources required to implement it effectively. Hence this is
not an end to end system but a system implemented in the routers.
